README.md, before:

# Resources for Mac and iOS developers

[:chart_with_upwards_trend: Analytics](#analytics) | [:books: Books](#books) | [:office: Conferences](#conferences) | [:notebook: Courses](#courses) | [:art: Design](#design) | [:newspaper: Newsletters](#newsletters) | [:speaker: Podcasts](#podcasts) | [:wrench: Tools](#tools) | [:bird: Twitter](#twitter) | [:movie_camera: Video](#video) | [:globe_with_meridians: Websites](#websites)

Feel free to submit your own links and categories via [Pull Requests](https://github.com/knoxcocoa/dev-resources/pulls) or [Issues](https://github.com/knoxcocoa/dev-resources/issues).

## Analytics
[Crashlytics](https://try.crashlytics.com) - light weight crash reporting solution  
[AppbotX](https://appbot.co/appbotx/getstarted) - better mobile app support  
[Flurry](http://www.flurry.com) - analytics for mobile platforms  
[LaunchKit](https://launchkit.io) - screenshot builder, review monitor, sales reports, and website creation  
[App Store Health Check](http://healthcheck.appbot.co/#/) - recommendations to improve app store description

## Books
[iOS Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide](http://www.amazon.com/iOS-Programming-Ranch-Edition-Guides/dp/0321942051/) by Joe Conway, Aaron Hillegass, Christian Keur  
[Objective-C Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide](http://www.amazon.com/Objective-C-Programming-Ranch-Edition-Guides/dp/032194206X/) by Aaron Hillegass, Mikey Ward  
[Cocoa Programming for Mac OS X](http://www.amazon.com/Cocoa-Programming-Mac-OS-4th/dp/0321774086/) by Aaron Hillegass, Adam Preble  
[Effective Objective-C 2.0: Ways to Improve Your iOS and OS X Programs](http://www.amazon.com/Effective-Objective-C-2-0-Specific-Development/dp/0321917014/) by Matt Galloway  
[Design+Code: Learn iOS design and Xcode](https://designcode.io/) by Meng To   
[Motion Design for iOS](http://designthencode.com) by Mike Rundle  
[3D Graphics with Scene Kit](http://ronnqvi.st/book/) by David Ronnqvist  
[Intermediate iOS 8 Programming with Swift Book](http://www.appcoda.com/intermediate-swift-programming-book/) by AppCoda  
[iOS Apps with REST APIs: Building Web-Driven Apps in Swift](https://leanpub.com/iosappswithrest/c/launch) by Christina Moulton  
[Parsing JSON in Swift](http://roadfiresoftware.com/parsing-json-in-swift/) by Josh Brown

## Conferences
[Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC)](https://developer.apple.com/wwdc/) - San Francisco, CA  
[CocoaConf](http://cocoaconf.com) - various locations  
[360iDev](http://360idev.com) - Denver, CO  
[CodeStock](http://www.codestock.org) - Knoxville, TN  
[CocoaLove](http://cocoalove.org) - Philadelphia, PA  
[RWDevCon](http://www.rwdevcon.com) - the tutorial conference in Alexandria, VA  
[Music City Code](http://www.musiccitycode.com) - tech conference in Nashville, TN  
[Spark Conference](http://sparkconf.org) - tech conference in Charlotte, NC  
[Indie DevStock](http://www.indiedevstock.com/2016/) - Nashville, TN  
[iOSDevUK](http://iosdevuk.com) - Aberystwyth, UK  
[NSNorth](http://nsnorth.ca) - Toronto, Canada  
[NSSpain](http://nsspain.com) - in northern Spain  
[#Pragma Conference](http://pragmaconference.com) - in Italy  
[UIKonf](http://www.uikonf.com) - Berlin, Germany  
[try! Swift](http://www.tryswiftconf.com/en) - Tokyo, Japan  
[Swift Summit](https://www.swiftsummit.com) - in London and San Francisco  
[AltConf](http://www.altconf.com) - San Francisco, CA  

## Courses
[Big Nerd Ranch](http://www.bignerdranch.com/) - classes offered for iOS and Mac programming  
[The Iron Yard](http://theironyard.com/academy/) - learn iOS app development using Xcode 5 and Objective-C  
[Treehouse](http://teamtreehouse.com/features/ios) - iOS programming  
[Code School](https://www.codeschool.com/paths/ios) - basics of iOS development and iPhone / iPad apps  
[Bitfountain](http://bitfountain.io) - iOS 7 and iOS 8 online video courses and discussions  
[Lynda.com](http://www.lynda.com) - Swift, iOS, C, and Objective-C online video courses  
[Pluralsight](http://www.pluralsight.com) - iOS, Objective-C, and Swift courses  
[Udemy](https://www.udemy.com) - Swift and iOS online courses  
[Stanford on iTunes U](https://itunes.stanford.edu/index.html) - iOS and Swift programming courses  
[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com) - online courses and degree programs  
[Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com) - learn to code interactively

## Design
[Sketch](https://www.sketchapp.com) - professional digital design for the Mac  
[Silver Flows](http://silverflows.com) - lightweight mobile prototyping in Sketch  
[ICNS](http://geticns.com) - simple app icon preview for iOS  
[Flinto for Mac](https://www.flinto.com/mac) - the prototyping tool designers have been waiting for  
[Blocs](http://blocsapp.com) - build beautiful responsive websites without touching a line of code  

## Newsletters
[iOS Dev Weekly](http://iosdevweekly.com) - curated by Dave Verwer and published every Friday  
[Ray's Monthly Newsletter](http://www.raywenderlich.com) - published monthly by Ray Wenderlich  
[Swift Developer Weekly](http://swiftdevweekly.co) - weekly publication curated by Phil Wright  
[iOS GameDev Weekly](http://iosgamedevweekly.com) - collection of iOS game development links every week  
[This Week in Swift](http://swiftnews.curated.co) - weekly Swift news & resources via email or Safari Push Notification  
[iOS Goodies](http://ios-goodies.com) - weekly articles and other iOS goodies  
[iOS Tech Learning/Resources Weekly](https://darrellnicholas-com.curated.co) - weekly publication of relevant, interesting links

## Podcasts
[Accidental Tech Podcast](http://atp.fm) - discussion of tech, Apple, programming, and loosely related matters  
[Edge Cases](http://edgecasesshow.com) - weekly podcast about mostly Apple software development  
[Developing Perspective](http://developingperspective.com) - discussing news of note in iOS Development, Apple and the like  
[Release Notes](http://releasenotes.tv/aboutthepodcast/) - weekly podcast about the business of Mac and iOS indie software development  
[Core Intuition](http://www.coreint.org) - indie software development for Mac, iOS and other Apple technologies  
[CocoaConf Podcast](http://cocoaconf.com/podcast) - professional development for iOS and OSX developers  
[iPhreaks](http://devchat.tv/iphreaks) - podcast for app developers  
[More Than Just Code Podcast](http://www.mtjc.fm) - a show about mobile development  
[The iOS Show](http://www.wehavecommunicators.com) - iOS news, tips, and opinions  
[iOS Bytes](https://iosbytes.codeschool.com) - the latest news in the iOS community  
[Developing Perspective](http://developingperspective.com) - podcast discussing news of note in iOS Development, Apple and the like

## Tools
[Swift Bootstrap](http://www.swiftbootstrap.com) - help speed up the process of developing iOS apps  
[QuartzCode](http://www.quartzcodeapp.com) - turn animation natively into Objective-C or Swift code  
[fastlane](https://fastlane.tools) - iOS automation for continuous delivery  
[AudioKit](http://audiokit.io) - powerful toolkit for audio synthesis, processing and analysis  
[Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org) - test and deploy code with confidence, easily sync with GitHub projects  
[CircleCI](https://circleci.com) - continuous integration and deployment  
[Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org) - an extensible open source continuous integration server  
[Firebase](https://www.firebase.com) - store and sync data in realtime  
[Layer](https://layer.com) - a full-stack building block for communications  
[Deep Belief](https://github.com/jetpacapp/DeepBeliefSDK) - image recognition framework  
[Shopify](https://developers.shopify.com) - mobile commerce tools for apps  
[PlotKit](https://github.com/aleph7/PlotKit) - OS X plotting framework  

## Twitter
[Tim Cook](https://twitter.com/tim_cook) - CEO Apple, Fan of Auburn football and Duke basketball  
[Chris Lattner](https://twitter.com/clattner_llvm) - The revolution will be Swift! LLVM & Clang are pretty nice too :-)  
[Matt Galloway](https://twitter.com/mattjgalloway) - iOS developer, Dad, author of Effective Objective-C 2.0.  
[Ash Furrow](https://twitter.com/ashfurrow) - Swift cheerleader at @Artsy. Also open source. As Canadian as frozen apple pie.  
[Ole Begemann](https://twitter.com/olebegemann) - iOS and Mac developer from Berlin. Also tweeting as @elo (in German).  
[Chris Eidhof](https://twitter.com/chriseidhof) - I make things: @FunctionalSwift – @getscenery – @decksetapp – @objcio  

## Video
[AppleProgramming](https://www.youtube.com/user/AppleProgramming) - learn programming for Mac OS X  
[Pomo.tv](http://www.pomo.tv) - a collection of videos about Mac, iOS, and Swift  

## Websites
[Ray Wenderlich](http://www.raywenderlich.com) - Tutorials for iPhone / iOS developers and gamers  
[Swift Blog](https://developer.apple.com/swift/blog/) - Apple's official blog for the Swift language  
[objc.io](http://www.objc.io) - A periodical about best practices and advanced techniques in Objective-C  
[NSHipster](http://nshipster.com) - Obscure topics in Cocoa and Objective-C  
[Think & Build](http://www.thinkandbuild.it) - Tutorials about OS X, iOS and web development  
[Natasha The Robot](http://natashatherobot.com) - Swift tutorials and examples  
[iAchieved.it](http://dev.iachieved.it/iachievedit/) - Software development tips and tricks  
[Metal By Example](http://metalbyexample.com) - High performance graphics and compute programming for iOS  
[Command Shift](http://commandshift.co.uk) - iOS development and other nonsense  
[FlexMonkey](http://flexmonkey.blogspot.com) - Swift and ActionScript tinkering  
[iOScreator](http://www.ioscreator.com) - posts about Objective-C, Swift, Cocoa and developing with Xcode  
[Coding Explorer Blog](http://www.codingexplorer.com) - learn how to program for iOS in Swift  
[Functional Gibberish](http://www.functionalgibberish.com) - programming in Swift  
[AppCoda](http://www.appcoda.com) - blog dedicated to iOS programming  
[iOS Development Tips](http://iosdevtips.co) - small tips related to Xcode, Objective-C, and iOS  
[Little Bites of Cocoa](http://littlebitesofcocoa.com) - tips and techniques for iOS and Mac development  
[AppleProgramming](https://www.youtube.com/user/AppleProgramming) - C, Objective-C, and Swift video tutorials for Mac developers  
[Use Your Loaf](http://useyourloaf.com) - programming examples for OS X and iOS  
[We ❤ Swift](https://www.weheartswift.com) - Swift and iOS articles and tutorials  
[ShinobiControls](https://www.shinobicontrols.com/blog) - technical blog posts for iOS  
[KrakenDev](http://krakendev.io) - blog about Swift programming  
[SDK Critic](http://www.sdkcritic.com) - review iOS and OS X frameworks  
[NSScreencast](http://nsscreencast.com) - weekly bite-sized screencasts for iOS development  
[Memkite Blog](http://memkite.com/blog/) - blog on deep learning software for iOS  
[Skilled](http://www.skilled.io) - the show and tell community for developers  
[Andrew Bancroft](https://www.andrewcbancroft.com) - sharing bits one byte at a time  
[Swift development blog](http://mhorga.org) - topics on Swift and Metal  
[Roadfire Software blog](http://roadfiresoftware.com/blog/) - topics on Swift and parsing JSON  
[Cocoa with Love](http://cocoawithlove.com) - blog by Matt Gallagher  
[Cocoa is My Girlfriend](http://www.cimgf.com) - a passion for programming on iOS and OSX  
[that thing in swift](https://thatthinginswift.com) - programming patterns in Swift  
[swifting.io](https://swifting.io) - Swiftly coding in Swift  
[Grok Swift](https://grokswift.com) - a world view of Swift

Commit message:

add Hacking with Swift to books and courses

README.md, after:

# Resources for Mac and iOS developers

[:chart_with_upwards_trend: Analytics](#analytics) | [:books: Books](#books) | [:office: Conferences](#conferences) | [:notebook: Courses](#courses) | [:art: Design](#design) | [:newspaper: Newsletters](#newsletters) | [:speaker: Podcasts](#podcasts) | [:wrench: Tools](#tools) | [:bird: Twitter](#twitter) | [:movie_camera: Video](#video) | [:globe_with_meridians: Websites](#websites)

Feel free to submit your own links and categories via [Pull Requests](https://github.com/knoxcocoa/dev-resources/pulls) or [Issues](https://github.com/knoxcocoa/dev-resources/issues).

## Analytics
[Crashlytics](https://try.crashlytics.com) - light weight crash reporting solution  
[AppbotX](https://appbot.co/appbotx/getstarted) - better mobile app support  
[Flurry](http://www.flurry.com) - analytics for mobile platforms  
[LaunchKit](https://launchkit.io) - screenshot builder, review monitor, sales reports, and website creation  
[App Store Health Check](http://healthcheck.appbot.co/#/) - recommendations to improve app store description

## Books
[iOS Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide](http://www.amazon.com/iOS-Programming-Ranch-Edition-Guides/dp/0321942051/) by Joe Conway, Aaron Hillegass, Christian Keur  
[Objective-C Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide](http://www.amazon.com/Objective-C-Programming-Ranch-Edition-Guides/dp/032194206X/) by Aaron Hillegass, Mikey Ward  
[Cocoa Programming for Mac OS X](http://www.amazon.com/Cocoa-Programming-Mac-OS-4th/dp/0321774086/) by Aaron Hillegass, Adam Preble  
[Effective Objective-C 2.0: Ways to Improve Your iOS and OS X Programs](http://www.amazon.com/Effective-Objective-C-2-0-Specific-Development/dp/0321917014/) by Matt Galloway  
[Design+Code: Learn iOS design and Xcode](https://designcode.io/) by Meng To   
[Motion Design for iOS](http://designthencode.com) by Mike Rundle  
[3D Graphics with Scene Kit](http://ronnqvi.st/book/) by David Ronnqvist  
[Intermediate iOS 8 Programming with Swift Book](http://www.appcoda.com/intermediate-swift-programming-book/) by AppCoda  
[iOS Apps with REST APIs: Building Web-Driven Apps in Swift](https://leanpub.com/iosappswithrest/c/launch) by Christina Moulton  
[Parsing JSON in Swift](http://roadfiresoftware.com/parsing-json-in-swift/) by Josh Brown  
[Hacking with Swift](https://www.hackingwithswift.com) by Paul Hudson  

## Conferences
[Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC)](https://developer.apple.com/wwdc/) - San Francisco, CA  
[CocoaConf](http://cocoaconf.com) - various locations  
[360iDev](http://360idev.com) - Denver, CO  
[CodeStock](http://www.codestock.org) - Knoxville, TN  
[CocoaLove](http://cocoalove.org) - Philadelphia, PA  
[RWDevCon](http://www.rwdevcon.com) - the tutorial conference in Alexandria, VA  
[Music City Code](http://www.musiccitycode.com) - tech conference in Nashville, TN  
[Spark Conference](http://sparkconf.org) - tech conference in Charlotte, NC  
[Indie DevStock](http://www.indiedevstock.com/2016/) - Nashville, TN  
[iOSDevUK](http://iosdevuk.com) - Aberystwyth, UK  
[NSNorth](http://nsnorth.ca) - Toronto, Canada  
[NSSpain](http://nsspain.com) - in northern Spain  
[#Pragma Conference](http://pragmaconference.com) - in Italy  
[UIKonf](http://www.uikonf.com) - Berlin, Germany  
[try! Swift](http://www.tryswiftconf.com/en) - Tokyo, Japan  
[Swift Summit](https://www.swiftsummit.com) - in London and San Francisco  
[AltConf](http://www.altconf.com) - San Francisco, CA  

## Courses
[Big Nerd Ranch](http://www.bignerdranch.com/) - classes offered for iOS and Mac programming  
[The Iron Yard](http://theironyard.com/academy/) - learn iOS app development using Xcode 5 and Objective-C  
[Treehouse](http://teamtreehouse.com/features/ios) - iOS programming  
[Code School](https://www.codeschool.com/paths/ios) - basics of iOS development and iPhone / iPad apps  
[Bitfountain](http://bitfountain.io) - iOS 7 and iOS 8 online video courses and discussions  
[Lynda.com](http://www.lynda.com) - Swift, iOS, C, and Objective-C online video courses  
[Pluralsight](http://www.pluralsight.com) - iOS, Objective-C, and Swift courses  
[Udemy](https://www.udemy.com) - Swift and iOS online courses  
[Stanford on iTunes U](https://itunes.stanford.edu/index.html) - iOS and Swift programming courses  
[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com) - online courses and degree programs  
[Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com) - learn to code interactively  
[Hacking with Swift](https://www.hackingwithswift.com) by Paul Hudson  

## Design
[Sketch](https://www.sketchapp.com) - professional digital design for the Mac  
[Silver Flows](http://silverflows.com) - lightweight mobile prototyping in Sketch  
[ICNS](http://geticns.com) - simple app icon preview for iOS  
[Flinto for Mac](https://www.flinto.com/mac) - the prototyping tool designers have been waiting for  
[Blocs](http://blocsapp.com) - build beautiful responsive websites without touching a line of code  

## Newsletters
[iOS Dev Weekly](http://iosdevweekly.com) - curated by Dave Verwer and published every Friday  
[Ray's Monthly Newsletter](http://www.raywenderlich.com) - published monthly by Ray Wenderlich  
[Swift Developer Weekly](http://swiftdevweekly.co) - weekly publication curated by Phil Wright  
[iOS GameDev Weekly](http://iosgamedevweekly.com) - collection of iOS game development links every week  
[This Week in Swift](http://swiftnews.curated.co) - weekly Swift news & resources via email or Safari Push Notification  
[iOS Goodies](http://ios-goodies.com) - weekly articles and other iOS goodies  
[iOS Tech Learning/Resources Weekly](https://darrellnicholas-com.curated.co) - weekly publication of relevant, interesting links

## Podcasts
[Accidental Tech Podcast](http://atp.fm) - discussion of tech, Apple, programming, and loosely related matters  
[Edge Cases](http://edgecasesshow.com) - weekly podcast about mostly Apple software development  
[Developing Perspective](http://developingperspective.com) - discussing news of note in iOS Development, Apple and the like  
[Release Notes](http://releasenotes.tv/aboutthepodcast/) - weekly podcast about the business of Mac and iOS indie software development  
[Core Intuition](http://www.coreint.org) - indie software development for Mac, iOS and other Apple technologies  
[CocoaConf Podcast](http://cocoaconf.com/podcast) - professional development for iOS and OSX developers  
[iPhreaks](http://devchat.tv/iphreaks) - podcast for app developers  
[More Than Just Code Podcast](http://www.mtjc.fm) - a show about mobile development  
[The iOS Show](http://www.wehavecommunicators.com) - iOS news, tips, and opinions  
[iOS Bytes](https://iosbytes.codeschool.com) - the latest news in the iOS community  
[Developing Perspective](http://developingperspective.com) - podcast discussing news of note in iOS Development, Apple and the like

## Tools
[Swift Bootstrap](http://www.swiftbootstrap.com) - help speed up the process of developing iOS apps  
[QuartzCode](http://www.quartzcodeapp.com) - turn animation natively into Objective-C or Swift code  
[fastlane](https://fastlane.tools) - iOS automation for continuous delivery  
[AudioKit](http://audiokit.io) - powerful toolkit for audio synthesis, processing and analysis  
[Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org) - test and deploy code with confidence, easily sync with GitHub projects  
[CircleCI](https://circleci.com) - continuous integration and deployment  
[Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org) - an extensible open source continuous integration server  
[Firebase](https://www.firebase.com) - store and sync data in realtime  
[Layer](https://layer.com) - a full-stack building block for communications  
[Deep Belief](https://github.com/jetpacapp/DeepBeliefSDK) - image recognition framework  
[Shopify](https://developers.shopify.com) - mobile commerce tools for apps  
[PlotKit](https://github.com/aleph7/PlotKit) - OS X plotting framework  

## Twitter
[Tim Cook](https://twitter.com/tim_cook) - CEO Apple, Fan of Auburn football and Duke basketball  
[Chris Lattner](https://twitter.com/clattner_llvm) - The revolution will be Swift! LLVM & Clang are pretty nice too :-)  
[Matt Galloway](https://twitter.com/mattjgalloway) - iOS developer, Dad, author of Effective Objective-C 2.0.  
[Ash Furrow](https://twitter.com/ashfurrow) - Swift cheerleader at @Artsy. Also open source. As Canadian as frozen apple pie.  
[Ole Begemann](https://twitter.com/olebegemann) - iOS and Mac developer from Berlin. Also tweeting as @elo (in German).  
[Chris Eidhof](https://twitter.com/chriseidhof) - I make things: @FunctionalSwift – @getscenery – @decksetapp – @objcio  

## Video
[AppleProgramming](https://www.youtube.com/user/AppleProgramming) - learn programming for Mac OS X  
[Pomo.tv](http://www.pomo.tv) - a collection of videos about Mac, iOS, and Swift  

## Websites
[Ray Wenderlich](http://www.raywenderlich.com) - Tutorials for iPhone / iOS developers and gamers  
[Swift Blog](https://developer.apple.com/swift/blog/) - Apple's official blog for the Swift language  
[objc.io](http://www.objc.io) - A periodical about best practices and advanced techniques in Objective-C  
[NSHipster](http://nshipster.com) - Obscure topics in Cocoa and Objective-C  
[Think & Build](http://www.thinkandbuild.it) - Tutorials about OS X, iOS and web development  
[Natasha The Robot](http://natashatherobot.com) - Swift tutorials and examples  
[iAchieved.it](http://dev.iachieved.it/iachievedit/) - Software development tips and tricks  
[Metal By Example](http://metalbyexample.com) - High performance graphics and compute programming for iOS  
[Command Shift](http://commandshift.co.uk) - iOS development and other nonsense  
[FlexMonkey](http://flexmonkey.blogspot.com) - Swift and ActionScript tinkering  
[iOScreator](http://www.ioscreator.com) - posts about Objective-C, Swift, Cocoa and developing with Xcode  
[Coding Explorer Blog](http://www.codingexplorer.com) - learn how to program for iOS in Swift  
[Functional Gibberish](http://www.functionalgibberish.com) - programming in Swift  
[AppCoda](http://www.appcoda.com) - blog dedicated to iOS programming  
[iOS Development Tips](http://iosdevtips.co) - small tips related to Xcode, Objective-C, and iOS  
[Little Bites of Cocoa](http://littlebitesofcocoa.com) - tips and techniques for iOS and Mac development  
[AppleProgramming](https://www.youtube.com/user/AppleProgramming) - C, Objective-C, and Swift video tutorials for Mac developers  
[Use Your Loaf](http://useyourloaf.com) - programming examples for OS X and iOS  
[We ❤ Swift](https://www.weheartswift.com) - Swift and iOS articles and tutorials  
[ShinobiControls](https://www.shinobicontrols.com/blog) - technical blog posts for iOS  
[KrakenDev](http://krakendev.io) - blog about Swift programming  
[SDK Critic](http://www.sdkcritic.com) - review iOS and OS X frameworks  
[NSScreencast](http://nsscreencast.com) - weekly bite-sized screencasts for iOS development  
[Memkite Blog](http://memkite.com/blog/) - blog on deep learning software for iOS  
[Skilled](http://www.skilled.io) - the show and tell community for developers  
[Andrew Bancroft](https://www.andrewcbancroft.com) - sharing bits one byte at a time  
[Swift development blog](http://mhorga.org) - topics on Swift and Metal  
[Roadfire Software blog](http://roadfiresoftware.com/blog/) - topics on Swift and parsing JSON  
[Cocoa with Love](http://cocoawithlove.com) - blog by Matt Gallagher  
[Cocoa is My Girlfriend](http://www.cimgf.com) - a passion for programming on iOS and OSX  
[that thing in swift](https://thatthinginswift.com) - programming patterns in Swift  
[swifting.io](https://swifting.io) - Swiftly coding in Swift  
[Grok Swift](https://grokswift.com) - a world view of Swift
